# deps_nix

A Mix task that converts Mix dependencies to Nix derivations. Inspired by
[mix2nix](https://github.com/ydlr/mix2nix).

While mix2nix is a function of a `mix.lock`, this project instead uses Mix's
internals to allow you to choose packages from certain environments. It also
supports git and path dependencies.

## Why?

You want this if you plan to release your Elixir project using nixpkgs'
[mixRelease](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/development/beam-modules/mix-release.nix),
or have other uses for wrapping each of your Mix dependencies in derivations.

Using separate Nix derivations for each dependency:

- Avoids downloading and compiling all of your dependencies for each release,
  which is what happens when you use a Fixed-Output Derivation (`mixFodDeps` in
  `mixRelease`).
- Lets you cache compiled dependencies and reuse them when they don't change,
  making your release faster. This is especially important when your
  dependencies take a while to compile.
- Gives you loads of geek points.

## Installation

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:deps_nix, "~> 0.0", only: :dev}
  ]
end
```

Optional: add aliases for `deps.get` and `deps.update`. This helps to keep your
Nix dependencies in sync with what's declared in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def project do
  [
    ...
    aliases: [
      "deps.get": ["deps.get", "deps.nix"],
      "deps.update": ["deps.update", "deps.nix"]
    ]
  ]
end
```

Docs can be found at <https://hexdocs.pm/deps_nix>.

## Usage

```shell
mix deps.nix
```

By default, this will generate a `deps.nix` file in the current directory,
using only the `:prod` dependencies for your project.

See `mix help deps.nix` for more options.

## Rustler-precompiled

deps_nix will work with some dependencies that use
[rustler-precompiled](https://github.com/philss/rustler_precompiled). See the
[default overrides](priv/default-overrides.nix) for a list of them. For better
compatibility with the Nix ecosystem, deps_nix eschews precompiled artifacts
altogether: it compiles the dependency from scratch to let your project
leverage Nix caching. This will mean that you'll have to wait for an initial
compilation in your CI system.

You must disable Rustler's compilation in your release environment as well.
This is done at compile time in the Nix derivation, but your runtime
configuration must match this.

e.g. for explorer, in `config/prod.exs`:

```
config :explorer, Explorer.PolarsBackend.Native, skip_compilation?: true
```

The advantage of this approach is that you don't have to update hashes when
dependencies change. The disadvantage is that you must wait for the compilation
for each Nix machine that isn't configured to use a cache, and for each new
version.

If you'd prefer to use the precompiled Rust libraries, this is still possible
by using a Nix fetcher and providing the library to the dependency inside a
directory that is set as `RUSTLER_PRECOMPILED_GLOBAL_CACHE_PATH` in a custom
override.
